# Ontology-of-Traditional-Chinese-Medicine
This is an beginning of an ontology of Traditional Chinese Medicine (OTCM). It was created as a part of the Master Thesis work of Tom Lundholm for the Health Informatics Masters Programme at Karolinska Institutet and Stockholm Univesity. The OTCM is NOT a fully developed ontology yet. The OTCM have been designed as an adaptation of a SNOMED CT Clinical Finding ontology developed by Tania Tudorache in 2014. The SNOMED CT Clinical Fidning ontology is accessible using the following link: https://bioportal.bioontology.org/ontologies/SNOMED_CF. The SNOMED CT Clinical Finding ontology contained 106621 classes. Before the creation of the OTCM, an analysis of which Traditional Medicine disorder and pattern concepts of Chapter 26 of ICD-11 were representable using SNOMED CT concepts was performed. The SNOMED CT version for this analysis was the SNOMED CT version 28-02-2022, accessed through the SNOPM ED CT Web browser.

The OTCM was developed using some of the concepts that during the analysis were considered equal between ICD-11 and SNOMED CT. The OTCM was mainly created by editing existing hierarchical branches of the SNOMED CT Clinical Finding ontology and re-name all equal concepts to begin with 'TM-', to differentiate the concepts related to Traditional Medicince from the others. For the concepts or hierarchical branches that did not exist in the Clinical Finding ontology, these were created. The creation and editing of concepts of the Clinical Finding ontlogy was done following the structure of the concepts in the SNOMED CT Web browser version 28-02-2022. In its current state, the OTCM contains 106642 concepts. 

The OTCM have been developed using Protégé 5.5.0 and checked for consistency using the HermiT 1.4.3 reasoner.
